intro interview question for python
👇

🐍 Basic Python Introduction Interview Questions
1. What is Python?

Python is a high-level, interpreted, object-oriented programming language known for its simplicity and readability. It is widely used in web development, data science, AI, automation, and more.

2. Why is Python so popular?

Python is popular because:

Easy to learn and write
Simple syntax (like English)
Huge libraries (NumPy, Pandas, etc.)
Cross-platform support
Used in AI, ML, Web Dev, Data Science
3. Is Python compiled or interpreted?

Python is an interpreted language, meaning code is executed line by line, which makes debugging easier.

4. What are variables in Python?

Variables are containers used to store data values.
Example:

x = 10
name = "Shrii"
5. What are the data types in Python?

Common data types:

int → 10
float → 10.5
str → "Hello"
list → [1,2,3]
tuple → (1,2,3)
dict → {"a":1}
6. Difference between list and tuple?
List → mutable (can change)
Tuple → immutable (cannot change)
7. What are keywords in Python?

Keywords are reserved words that have special meaning in Python like:
if, else, while, for, def, class

8. What is indentation in Python?

Indentation means spaces at the beginning of a line. Python uses it to define code blocks instead of curly braces.

9. What is a function in Python?

A function is a block of reusable code.

def greet():
    print("Hello")
10. What is a module in Python?

A module is a file containing Python code (functions, variables, classes) that can be imported.

💡 Bonus Tip (Interview Trick)

If interviewer asks “introduce yourself in Python context”, you can say:

“I have basic knowledge of Python including variables, loops, functions, and I’m currently improving my problem-solving skills using Python.”







/////syntax , input or output

🐍 1. Python Syntax (Basic Structure)
📌 What is Syntax?

Syntax means the rules to write Python code correctly.

Python is known for simple and readable syntax.

🧾 Example of Python Syntax:
if 5 > 2:
    print("Five is greater than two")
⚡ Key Points:
No semicolons needed (optional)
Uses indentation instead of {}
Case-sensitive language
❗ Common Interview Question:
Q: Why is indentation important in Python?

👉 Because Python uses indentation to define blocks of code like loops, conditions, and functions.

⌨️ 2. Input in Python
📌 What is Input?

Input is used to take data from the user.

Python uses the input() function.

🧾 Syntax:
variable = input("Enter something: ")
🧾 Example:
name = input("Enter your name: ")
print("Hello", name)
⚡ Important Point:
Input is always string type by default
🔥 Type Conversion Example:
age = int(input("Enter age: "))
❗ Interview Question:
Q: Why do we use int(input())?

👉 Because input() returns string, and int() converts it into integer.

🖨️ 3. Output in Python
📌 What is Output?

Output is used to display result on screen.

Python uses print() function.

🧾 Syntax:
print(value)
🧾 Example:
print("Hello World")
⚡ Multiple Output Example:
name = "Shrii"
age = 20
print("Name:", name, "Age:", age)
🔥 f-string Output (Modern way):
print(f"My name is {name} and age is {age}")
❗ Interview Question:
Q: Difference between print and return?

👉 print shows output on screen, return sends value back from function.

🎯 QUICK REVISION (VERY IMPORTANT)
Topic	Function	Example
Syntax	Rules of writing code	indentation
Input	Take data from user	input()
Output	Display result	print()
🚀 BONUS INTERVIEW QUESTION SET
Q1. What is Python syntax?

👉 Rules to write correct Python code.

Q2. How do you take input in Python?

👉 Using input() function.

Q3. How do you display output?

👉 Using print() function.

Q4. What is default input type?

👉 String